good okay welcome I'd like to welcome
you all to Tuesday March 14th
Pennsylvania County School Board regular
meeting we've got a lot of students to
recognize tonight but before we get
started if you bear with us just a
minute we've got a couple of closed item
things to take care of before we get to
that part
so right now I need a roll call Miss
Hancock Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald fixture
president
Mr Dallas president have a motion to
reconvene from clothes and related
action items please
so move
second
I have a motion in a second roll call
please Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye
Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon
Mr Dallas uh
um motion's composed please miss Hancock
case a motion for expulsion with
continuing Educational Services to be
determined by the individualized
education program committee
I'm a motion in a second any discussion
roll call please
Fitzgerald
Mr Moon Mr Dallas
motion to approve the request for
release from compulsory attendance based
on religious exemption for two students
so move
I'm a motion in a second any discussion
protocol Please Mr Burton
Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson aye aye Ms
Merricks Mr mayles yes Mr Moon Mr dots
uh
motion to Grant a waiver of school board
policy
gcbfb- PC voluntary donation of sick
leave days to remove the maximum number
of donated sick leave days that may be
used under this policy and allow Ms
Jennifer Watson to use an additional 20
voluntary donate donated sick leave days
if received for the
2022-2023 school year
have a motion in a second is there any
discussion
all info roll call please Mr Burton aye
Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr mayles yes Mr moon this Miss
Dallas
aye motion to approve Personnel changes
for March 14 2023 as presented
so move
Motion in a second any discussion on
Personnel changes
roll call Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr tender aye Ms Merricks
Mr Moon
aye Mr Doss uh
Dr Jones you got a recommendation for us
tonight yes sir I do uh Mr Dawson school
board members I would like to recommend
um that Mr Jordan Parker
be appointed as the new principal of
hurt Elementary School Mr Parker
currently serves as a principal of Twin
Springs Elementary School he prior to
that he served as a PE teacher a facts
teacher and an assistant principal at
Southside Elementary School he has six
years of experience as an administrator
uh 12 total years of experience as an
educator in Pennsylvania county so I
would like to make that recommendation
this evening so I moved second
any discussion
Pro call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson um
[Music]
Mr dolls
all right next we have additions to the
agenda
and uh use of ECC building
that will be 10-6
have a motion to approve the agenda with
the one change
second
any discussion Mr chairman I didn't hear
what his what his change was I can't
hear from over there okay we added an
item 10-6 use of the ECC building okay
okay
I have a motion in a second so roll call
Mr Burton
aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye
Ms Merricks aye Mr mayles yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss aye
consent agenda
have a motion in a second any discussion
roll call Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas uh now we're
going to get to the public presentations
up first is the character word of the
month fairness Mr Hearn from Gretna High
School
good evening school board members
members of the audience and to our
listeners at home fairness is not an
attitude but it is a skill that must be
developed and exercised as many of our
audience and staff know our school year
is leaving just as quickly as it rang in
and with this comes the busiest time of
the year as the school year closes out
it is important to take a second from
the madness to appreciate the work that
others put in for us and for themselves
part of fairness is understanding that
everyone has their own set of trials and
tribulations that they must be facing at
that moment being fair is treating the
custodian the same way as you would
treat the president
respect and fairness go hand in hand
fairness lies in the principle that
although people choose different paths
in life and everyone's outcome is
different we as a community must make
sure that every person has the equal
opportunity to succeed it's up to the
individual what they do with this
opportunity but fairness is guaranteeing
that they have it so as we all Rush
towards the end of the school year stop
and reflect on if you have
stop and reflect if you have treated the
ones around you with fairness and if not
think about how you can readjust your
mindset to do so thank you and may you
all have a blessed night
thank you Miss Terry
[Applause]
[Music]
is Mr Lewis here Mr Lewis is from the
church-based tutorial program
how you this evening Mr Lewis
good evening to all the school board
members
so my pleasure to be here to share a
program with you all that has been part
of our community our region for many
years
and I certainly do appreciate working
with Dr Jones for so many years I
certainly appreciate him cooperating
cooperating with us to share this
program has been a part of this uh this
region I was uh
on a zoom meeting with Cedric Harrison
and he asked me to share our program
with his uh title Title One parents and
um
so one of the teachers said man we
really need to hear this from the school
board point of view so I said I'll be
glad to do it uh sometimes people ask me
that this is what the best kept secret
in our region so I said I hope it's not
a secret to you all but I hope you all
have heard of this program before and
maybe I can kind of enlight you on some
of what we're doing
uh again my name is Kenny Lewis I'm the
executive director of the Danville
church and Community tutorial program
and our program been in existence now
for over 20 years in our region we
covered Danville Pennsylvania county and
Caswell and what we do is partner with
the school systems to help develop these
homework centers in our in our region to
help kids in our home we currently have
35 sites throughout our region where
we're helping kids out with homework
free free activities and um so it's my
delight to come and share this with you
all because I guess my message is that
the faith community is really stepping
up to want to help with our youth and
our youth really need that that
mentoring they need that support with
homework they need that exposure to to
um to the different activities that we
do have and so what I'm going to do is
just share a quick PowerPoint which it
won't take long I don't have a 10
minutes but I'll get through it real
very quick and our next slide is right
here this is a program that we have
implemented in all of our tutorial sites
is a stem program where we are growing
and aeroponically aeroponic Gardens
Within These sites and showing kids
students how to grow vegetables and how
to eat healthy and uh you know they're
learning how to grow and use the pH
levels and those ratios to try to grow
their Gardens correctly we do have
usually have a video with that but we're
gonna do it tonight but we'll go to the
next one
so what is the Danville church and
Community tutorial program we used to uh
we just changed our name to the Danville
church and Community tutorial program we
used to be the church-based but but I'll
still always use Church base myself but
uh but we did a feasibility study and
the reason why we changed it was because
people thought it was just only in
churches but we're in community centers
also so what we do is we collaborate
with all the school systems you know we
signed mous with the school we partnered
with businesses and our parents and our
mission is to provide quality
Educational Services uh to our students
to expand expand their knowledge so that
they can live a uh you know go into
College and Career as they move forward
in life and to help to raise their their
standard of living
so our mission is to inspire the youth
in our region again our region is
Danville Pennsylvania county and Caswell
and as you'll see we've got about 11
sites in in Pennsylvania county and uh
we want to uh definitely get those kids
academically up to par and uh help their
personal excellence in regard to their
social ability and developing their
character traits love to see those
characters trick track character Words
which we teach uh on a on a daily basis
and to enrich these kids in their
activities and stem activities when it
comes to
exposing them to this
our vision our goal for our tutorial
program is to be a a model program that
can have quality centers throughout our
region where kids can kind of come in
innovatively to get get the support that
they need academically and to make sure
they're ready for any kind of career or
going to college uh as they go on
learning in their life
so this is uh something we do every year
we do a scorecard and we we've been uh
especially it helps out with grants
writing to try to show our impact and
this this score card right here shows
that we Service uh right that year right
after covert we served over 300 children
and if you'll notice that the two things
that are really important to us our
third graders in their reading 92
percent of those kids pass their Sol
Test sixth grade we had 86 percent of
those kids past their Sol testing math
so you know those benchmarks right there
in sixth grade and third grade is so
vital and we know that the kids who who
attend our program there's no question
we're going to help them be successful
in school next
what we provide so what we try to do is
partner with churches and community
centers and develop these homework sites
because in our region man we have so
many churches we've got community
centers and man what a wonderful
opportunity we have to put in uh to to
come together as partners and develop
these centers because this is what we do
we provide the training for all the
tutors we provide we give them a free uh
um computer lab with laptops we provide
all the snacks we've given them an
educational budget you know we provide
any enrichment activities that they have
field trips any stem programs when they
go to the Science Center or The
Institute or any kind of field trips
with a cheerleading camp Sports Camps
all the kids who are in our program we
provided for your charge
these are the 11 sites that we do two to
the kids in the county you know some of
these sites have city and county kids
but most of all these are City kids I
mean County kids here that Abundant Life
these are different different
organizations that we have in the county
I think a matter of fact I think I got
Mount Nebo is here tonight I think we
have charcoal Baptist coordinators here
tonight also so we got some
representative first Baptists at uh in
Gretna just came on board and they did a
wonderful partnership with with Gretna
elementary school so they're doing a
really good job so it's really a match
made in heaven when we partner with
those schools and help them out
this is our structure of our program
right briefly right quick we do a
devotion with the kids look character
lesson similar to what was done tonight
we always talk about making sure they
got good Godly character good uh make
sure they got good morals and doing the
right making those right decisions then
we we as we do that we give them a snack
we do a go into a homework session and
then we break into small groups and our
focus is math and reading
these are partners that we've have
developed with all three school
districts and uh I certainly have had a
wonderful opportunity of working with Dr
Jones I never forget one of the sites
came to me and they said man don't you
know the superintendent came to visit
our site so they were so excited about
that and that Dr Jones came and visited
and uh so we certainly have developed a
wonderful relationship with the school
system in partnering with us to help
help develop these sites and uh you know
Danville community colleges another
partner Avery University the Dan River
non-profit Network which is a program
that helps strengthen non-profits
also we partnered with local businesses
been part of United Way for since 2002
and God's pick crew provided all of our
snacks for all the sites Denver Regional
Foundation has given us so many grants
to help us to fund our program the
Danville Science Center The Institute
Public Library we expose these kids to
all these activities so that they uh
they can uh you know broaden their
Horizons
these are the grants that we man we've
really been blessed with so many grants
along the way uh so I'm sure you all
recognize a lot of these grants that we
have been really been fortunate with to
to bless with computers educational
budget helps these kids on field trips
help them go to college we give them a
little stipend as kids the high school
kids going to college we give them a
little education stipend to go on to
college we'll give them a laptop to go
on to school so it's it's really been a
wonderful program to help our kids out
these are some of the resources that we
use read Theory it's a reading program
that's really impact their reading I
excel which is a wonderful program a
national known program that's really
helped the school system uses these and
it really assesses these kids and help
them help them in their math and Khan
Academy is another well-known program
that we use and these pacing guys we
work with the school system to try to
stay on Pace with the schools and um
tutorial website got so many resources
and that just in time math programs
another math program that we use to kind
of help kids in math
so that's our program in a nutshell I
know I went through that really really
quick because we we usually take a while
to do that but I just wanted to share
that with you all that what we're doing
uh in our community and what a great
opportunity we have uh to help our kids
out and I put I make sure that everyone
got a flyer and a brochure list of all
of our sites and that brochure that you
have is a we're doing a pastoral slash
leader Community leaders luncheon on
March the 30th so we're trying to again
energize and recruit more sites uh to
come on board because our goal is to
have at least 75 sites in the next three
years which I think we really couldn't
do that to help our kids out we've been
very successful and again I certainly do
look forward to working with
Pennsylvania county for years to come
I'm certainly can answer any questions
if y'all have any questions for me I'll
be glad to my information is on that
brochure so please feel free to reach
out to me Miss Petty has my information
she worked closely with us because one
thing that I really love the partnership
is that we are uh which is with the
school system where we're paying
teachers and those who are four-year
degree 30 an hour to go in and help
tutor our kids which is really to raise
the level of our tutorial sites in our
program and our outcomes is really
making a making a difference so if
anyone have ever have any questions
please contact me or I can answer any
questions right now if you have any
anyone have any questions for Mr Lewis
Mr Lewis I want to thank you and all of
your volunteers it's truly a blessing
that we can have y'all do this it really
does help our students yes yes and it's
more important today than ever because
the students really missed a lot of
instruction because of the covet
pandemic and it's really being a
struggle to catch that up and this is so
important
for our students to be able to do this
and I think if you look at our past
rates and where we are today
versus where a lot of our other school
divisions are yeah we much better off it
it's because of these type programs and
the extra work that people have put in
so thank you very much yeah I think I
certainly do appreciate it I'd just like
to add this right here which it it's
happened so it was coincidence happening
today so so one of the students is being
recognized tonight is my grandson so I
had to I had to mention that his name is
Jameson Lewis I'm so proud of him and he
uh
will be good and also one of our
tutorial students are going to be
recognized tonight too so they're doing
well in our in our program so certainly
thankful for it thank you all so much
thank you Mr Lewis I appreciate it
[Applause]
[Music]
so we're gonna we're gonna start
recognizing some students but before we
do I want to recognize I do see one of
our Board of supervisor members there Mr
Tucker it's good to have you with us
tonight is anybody with you you by
yourself good to see you thank you
appreciate your time at this time now
we're going to recognize the students
and I know that's what all y'all came
for
so miss Petty and who's
helping you
yeah why don't all of us just kind of
move down because I think all of us will
be involved in this it's something
okay
chairman Doss school board members Dr
Jones good evening it is my pleasure to
recognize students in the following
categories Athletics Junior Beta And
beta we will begin this evening with
Athletics Chatham High School and as I
call the school with the level director
please come forward for the level along
with the administrators and sponsors
Chatham High School
the first certificate
of Excellence is presented to Matthew
Marlow in recognition and appreciation
for outstanding achievement for being
the Virginia state runner-up and the 165
pound division of the Virginia High
School league state championship granted
this 14th day of March 2023 by the
Pittsylvania County School Board Calvin
Doss chairman Kelly Merrick's Vice
chairman
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you Matthew and thank you Mr Reese
our next recognitions are Brosville
Elementary School administrator felita
Atkins
this birth certificate of excellence is
presented to Ashland Grace Bryan placing
first in poetry at the Virginia state
Junior Beta convention
[Music]
[Applause]
Richard John Anderson first and fourth
grade science
[Applause]
[Music]
Carson Eckles third and three
dimensional design
Trinity Flores second and
two-dimensional Banner design team
Autumn salicki second and two
dimensional Banner design team
[Music]
and Carson Eckles second and two
dimensional Banner design team
[Applause]
Harper Clark third in creative writing
Harper Clark second and fifth grade
history
[Applause]
[Music]
Kenneth Jameson Lewis second and fourth
grade history
[Music]
[Applause]
for Asia Terry second in speech
[Music]
Autumn salicki first in trading pin
design
thank you to all of our students from
Braswell Elementary School
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
next we will recognize students from
Chatham Elementary School Dr Wanda
Carter principal
s
Charlotte Oaks third and fourth grade
language arts
[Applause]
[Music]
Marissa Motley second and fourth grade
math
[Applause]
Holly Striker third and fifth grade math
[Music]
Ashton Blair first in musicology team
[Applause]
[Music]
Holly Striker first in musicology team
[Applause]
[Music]
Jordan Hyatt first in musicology team
Danielle gray first in musicology team
Holly Striker first in portfolio
[Applause]
Danielle gray first in service learning
team
[Applause]
[Music]
Megan Carter first in service learning
team
Charlotte Oaks first in service learning
Danielle gray third in digital art
Jordan Hyatt second in recyclable art
[Applause]
Marissa Motley third in jewelry
safine shiroli first in pottery
[Applause]
Charlotte Oaks second in drawing
Lucille roach third in engineering team
[Music]
Marissa Motley third in engineering team
[Applause]
[Music]
Jeremy Evan Wyatt third and engineering
team
[Applause]
[Music]
Megan Carter third in engineering team
[Applause]
Benton Murphy third in engineering team
and Benton Murphy first in robotics team
[Music]
[Applause]
Holly Striker first in robotics team
[Music]
Ashton Blair first in robotics team
Jeremy Evan Wyatt first in robotics team
[Applause]
[Music]
shiroli first in robotics team
[Applause]
Jordan Hyatt first and robotics team
Lucille roach first in robotics team
Danielle gray first in robotics team and
Danielle gray second in quiz Bowl team
Ashton Blair second in quiz Bowl team
Holly Striker second inquis Bowl team
[Applause]
the fiend shiroli second in quiz Bowl
team
the thing Shirley third in apparel
[Music]
Charlotte Oaks third and on-site art
[Applause]
and Hyatt second in spelling
[Music]
Alexander Rodriguez 4th grade Spanish
placing first
[Applause]
[Music]
and Charlotte Oaks third and fourth
grade language arts
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
thank you Chatham Elementary School
[Music]
[Applause]
next is Gretna Elementary School
Paula Cox principal
and also Jennifer Andrews assistant
principal
Adam Roland third fourth grade
mathematics
[Music]
Briella Bennett second fifth grade
science
[Applause]
[Music]
Colton Haskins second Apparel Design
Team
[Music]
Mackenzie Jones second Apparel Design
Team
[Applause]
[Music]
Chloe Walker second engineering team
[Applause]
[Music]
Parker Tyree second engineering team
[Applause]
Levi Robinson second engineering team
[Music]
[Applause]
Mackenzie Jones second engineering team
[Music]
[Applause]
Colton Haskins second engineering team
[Music]
Briella Bennett second jewelry
[Applause]
Aliana Bennett second Apparel Design
Briella Bennett first in painting
[Applause]
Chloe Walker first recyclable art
and Chloe Walker first Best in Show in
Visual Arts
[Music]
Kaylee Jack fifth grade Virginia state
President congratulations on your
election
[Music]
[Applause]
Chloe Walker first in campaign skit team
[Music]
riella Bennett first in campaign skit
team
[Music]
Aliana Bennett first in campaign skit
team
[Music]
[Applause]
Melissa Sparks first in campaign skit
team
ebony Hoffman first in campaign skit
[Music]
Anna Dowdy first in campaign skit team
Colton Haskins first in campaign skit
team
[Applause]
congratulations Gretna Elementary School
[Music]
[Applause]
good job
[Music]
[Applause]
again congratulations gretton Elementary
School
[Music]
hurt Elementary
Kathy Lowry principal
this way
Connor butter second in musicology team
[Applause]
tiderius hunt second in musicology team
[Music]
Georgia Wyatt's second musicology team
[Applause]
Alexis Haskins second musicology team
Charlotte Ward third hand-drawn anime
[Applause]
Haley Yowell first two-dimensional
design team
Cameron Shelton first two-dimensional
[Applause]
Hayden Thompson first two-dimensional
design team
[Applause]
Evan Emerson first two-dimensional
design team
[Applause]
Tavion Taylor first two-dimensional
design team
[Applause]
Connor Butters first two-dimensional
design team
Tavion Taylor first quiz Bowl team
Alexis Haskins first quiz Bowl team
[Applause]
[Music]
Elena Collins first quiz Bowl team
Connor Butter's first quiz Bowl team
Georgia Wyatt first solo vocalist
[Applause]
[Music]
Charlotte Ward
first small group performance flag line
[Music]
Madison Davidson first small group
performance flag line
[Applause]
[Music]
Aubrey Krantz first small group
performance flag line
[Applause]
Rory Shelton first small group
performance flag line
[Music]
and Rory Shelton first in color
photography
[Applause]
Aubrey Krantz third black and white
photography
[Applause]
[Music]
Haley yowel first in fifth grade
language arts
Connor Butters third and fifth grade
science
Wyatt Atkins third fourth grade social
studies
anti Darius hunt first in spelling bee
congratulations Kurt Elementary School
[Music]
[Applause]
thanking her Elementary
[Music]
next is Mount Airy Elementary School Pam
Fields principal
Wesley Bell first and fifth grade
science
[Applause]
[Music]
Blair Saunders first engineering team
[Applause]
[Music]
Friedrich jurgavon first engineering
team
[Applause]
Hunter Pittman first engineering team
Cheyenne Mercer first engineering team
and Cheyenne Mercer first in performance
arts team
Blair Saunders first in performance arts
team
Hunter Pittman first in performance arts
[Applause]
Braden Smith first in performance arts
team
[Applause]
Aaliyah Lee first in performance arts
team
[Applause]
Lexi Waller second and fifth grade
language arts
Blair Saunders second in color
photography
[Music]
[Applause]
congratulations Mount Airy Elementary
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
thank you man Airy Elementary
[Applause]
[Music]
will now begin middle school
presentations Chatham Middle School
Julia Bowles principal
and thank you Mr cease for joining us
for elementary and Miss Craig helped us
out with high school so thank you to
both of them we now have Miss Eaton
helping with the middle school
presentations
Hannah Johnson first sixth grade
language arts
[Applause]
foreign third seventh grade language
arts
[Music]
Susanna Paris third sixth grade
mathematics
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you Chatham Middle School
[Applause]
[Music]
Dan River Middle School Chris Nick
principal
Lacey Woods congratulations on being
elected the Virginia state beta
secretary
[Applause]
[Music]
Samaria Nick first in Apparel Design
t-shirt team
miracle Anderson first and Apparel
Design
t-shirt team
Caroline Thompson second on-site drawing
[Music]
Hannah Mayhew third mixed media
[Applause]
Lucy Isom third creative writing
Cassidy Jones Johnson second eighth
grade mathematics
[Applause]
[Music]
Bailey Merrick's third eighth grade
language arts
[Applause]
[Music]
Genesis Bernard's second song fest team
Ralia Garns second song fest team
[Applause]
Melody Glassburn second song fest team
[Music]
Olivia Owens second song fest team
Lauren Roberson second song fest team
Chloe sample second song fest team
[Applause]
[Music]
Catherine Terry second song fest team
Caroline Thompson second song fest team
[Applause]
miracle Anderson second song fest team
Lucy Isom second song fest team
[Applause]
Samaria Nick second song fest team
[Music]
Lena Kong second song fest team
Lacy Woods second song fest team
[Applause]
Donya Hairston second song fest team
Cassidy Jones Johnson second song fest
team
[Applause]
Hannah Mayhew second song fest team
[Music]
daily Merrick's second song fest team
Annabella tuck second song fest team
congratulations Dan River Middle School
[Music]
[Applause]
congratulations Dan River Middle School
[Music]
[Applause]
next we have Gretna Middle School
Dr Thomas Takis principal
Cassandra Pittman assistant principal
Kinsley Wertz first black and white
photography
[Applause]
[Music]
Keely Smith second fiber art
[Applause]
Bella Clark Reynolds second an Apparel
Design t-shirt
[Applause]
[Music]
Chloe Cruz third performance dance
Chloe Cruz congratulations on being
named the National Premier performer and
Junior dance
[Music]
Kaylee Keely Smith second in sculpture
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations Gretna Middle School
[Applause]
okay
congratulations Gretna Middle School
Dan River High School
Anastasia from male principle
Hallie Vaden third Apparel Design
Olivia Cook second black and white
drawing
[Applause]
and Olivia Cook second solo Performing
Arts
[Applause]
congratulations Dan River High School
foreign
[Applause]
high school students and sponsors
Gretna High School
Eric Moon principal
Skylar craft third biomedical health
science
[Applause]
Charlize Kohl's third 11th grade French
Skylar craft third Fiber Arts division
two
[Applause]
Jaden Patrick Jaden Patrick third
drawing division one
Matthew Hearn third quiz wall team
James Hall third quiz Bowl team
Jaden Ratliff third quiz Bowl team
Skylar craft third quiz Bowl team
Olivia Franklin second ninth grade
French
Hannah Simpson second on-site painting
writer Brooks second sculpture division
two
Angel tuck second two-dimensional design
Austin Vale first woodworking division
one
and congratulations to Kinley Saunders
for receiving a 500 scholarship at the
Virginia state Beta convention
[Applause]
congratulations Gretna High School
congratulations
[Music]
[Applause]
Tunstall High School
Brian Bowles principal
Hunter Mills first three-dimensional
design
Matthew Harris first on-site drawing
division one
[Applause]
Sydney pritchett's second portfolio
[Music]
Addison hunsicker second service deliver
service learning showcase
[Music]
Denver Dalton First on-site painting
division one
and Denver Dalton first performing arts
solo
Matthew Harris second 10th grade French
Hunter Mills first 10th grade
agriscience
[Applause]
Mackenzie Harris first 12th grade
agriscience
[Applause]
Berlin's dung 3rd 11th grade mathematics
Mary Gammon second eleventh grade
biomedical
[Applause]
Luke Mills first woodworking division
two
and Luke Mills first in digital art
division two
[Music]
Hallie cassida third painting division
one
[Applause]
[Music]
Sydney Pritchett first quilling division
one
[Applause]
[Music]
Parker Sinclair third Fiber Arts
division one
[Applause]
and Parker Sinclair first in recycled
art division one
[Applause]
[Music]
shaper bowls third engineering team
[Applause]
Luke Mills third engineering team
Hallie cassida third engineering team
[Applause]
Matthew Harris third engineering team
Chandler snow third engineering team
[Applause]
[Music]
Mackenzie Harris first in marketing and
communication team
Parker Sinclair first in marketing and
Shelton McKinney first in marketing and
communication team
Sydney pritchett's second sculpture
division one
[Music]
Denver Dalton congratulations on being
named as the National Premier performer
congratulations Tulsa High School
[Music]
[Applause]
congratulations Tulsa high school and
thank you Ms Elizabeth Craig Miss Brenda
Dawson Miss Stacy Oaks for also
assisting and again congratulations to
all of our students who were recognized
this evening
thank you
foreign
I know most everybody's gone now but I
just want to take a second
to for those that hadn't left yet to
recognize those beta sponsors they do
not get paid anything to be a beta
sponsor they do it because they love the
kids and they believe in the program
so I really want to thank all the beta
sponsors for their hard work obviously
when you see how many students we
recognize tonight somebody put a lot of
work out
I really appreciate all those beta
sponsors that do that on their own time
thank y'all
[Music]
[Applause]
does the other Dr Jones pea I see you
hiding in the corner
I'm doing great you see if you almost
got a snow day almost almost not quite
but almost we was working on it but we
quite it just didn't quite stick just
didn't quite shift enough
hopefully we might see snow that sticks
and I just I just want to make a little
tiny snowman to say winter was here
another unusual winner though it really
has it has been and unfortunately it
looks like for those that are you know
Farmers Almanac type people looks like
this shift is a thing that might
continue on in the future and that's not
something that we really want to be
happy exactly
um matter of fact a good evening
superintendent Jones uh school board
members hey guys
a central office staff
it's truly a blessing I will tell you
thank you for the two-hour delay we
greatly appreciate that it was almost
like it was a full snow day and we're
also appreciative of Friday so it
balances out like we we actually had a
little bit of time but I will tell you
uh as far as where I'm going with this
how many y'all have ever heard of itis
Martius
sure you haven't heard of it
Addis Martius
it's better now I know the odds of
March which is scheduled for tomorrow
March the 15th interesting right so you
probably heard about it the soothsayer
right and Julius Caesar and William
Shakespeare right and it was all about
Beware of the odds of March okay and if
we look at the weather in places like
California and maybe even parts of New
York yes in Virginia not so much but it
actually it was it was all about dark
and gloomy connotation but it actually
has a non-threatening perspective most
people don't realize that so the kalens
denonis and the Ides were ancient
markers used to reference all of
something known as a lunar phase
okay and you can be watching the moon
the phase of the moon is going from Full
to
empty right it's waning so simply it was
to talk about the First new moon that
was given typically between the 13th and
the 15th right and in fact The Ides of
March once signified the new year a way
of joy and celebration
so we were joyous in celebrating on
Monday and we will be joyous and
celebrating on Friday amen yes yes yes
but ultimately hopefully we'll be joyous
in celebrating other things right like
maybe a budget that will come from our
state before July 1st we're hoping and
praying for that
[Laughter]
so we wanted
to focus on the the latter part of that
say versus the former part of it and
understanding that we do want to see
good things happen for all School
divisions just like what we saw and
chairman Doss I do want to say thank you
for recognizing our Baylor sponsors
um and the teachers and Educators as a
whole right like like those are good
things we want to celebrate because we
see good things coming out of y'all
which is the future of our community
local land abroad and anything we can do
to support that is worth celebrating
um some other things to celebrate we
want to say thank you for the
comprehensive planning survey in
reaching out to the community as a whole
and getting that input for the 2024 to
20 you know 30 looking at that
long-range plan there are parents and
staff that are just like okay when do we
get to see the results
so people are looking forward to hearing
what that feedback is and how we can
make those Visions come together through
fruition collectively
um one of the other things on the
continued brighter note and I was
talking to Dr Jones about this out in
the parking lot we actually had our
Pittsylvania Federation FFA public
speaking events held at Dale River High
School shout out to dinner
and winning their actual divisions and
advancing our chapter member from
Chatham Middle School in Creed speaking
a chapter member from Chatham High
School and Junior prepared Cody go get
some love when you get to school
tomorrow
um and two of my own chapter members
from Tunstall High School ivania Rivera
wrote us and Senior repair public
speaking and Caitlin Knight an
extemporaneous prepared public speaking
and I see them oh yes yes all of these
events prepare students to be able to
speak on topics that are related to the
agricultural industry but mainly the
community and how those pieces connect
and what we can do as Leaders as
students now to impact the future with
that being said all of those students
will be representing you all at the
Southridge area CDE lde rally next
Wednesday the Old Dominion AG complex on
March the 22nd so if you have an
opportunity to join us we will start
registration at 8 A.M
contests morning events will start at 9
00 a.m there will be lunch I will make
sure you are fed and then afternoon
events will start at one an awards
presentation at 4 30. and the Southridge
area actually comprises all the
different counties in our area which
include we're not limited to
Pennsylvania Campbell Bedford Roanoke
halliganey Craig Montgomery Roanoke like
we're huge so we're going to have all
those individuals coming out down uh
down the street and those students I
just named will be representing our
County in those public speaking events
matter of fact some of those individuals
from Chatham High School as well as
tonsil High School are currently at the
Virginia Farm Bureau district 10 policy
development meeting so some of them ran
out of Dan River across the county to
meet with producers and Community
leaders to discuss how do you develop
policy that impacts positive change in
your community and how that has an
economic impact so they're currently
finishing up or should be finishing up
at the Home Place Vineyard at this time
one of the other things to bring to your
attention Miss Don Kreider she is a
Gretna Middle School science teacher is
doing a March mammal Madness
if you're into basketball you understand
where this is going right it's
Bracketology and it's an invitation for
you to fill out the bracket she's doing
this really big thing in the school in
the cafeteria where the students can
actually figure out which one of these
mammals is going to win
so it's actually a connection with the
University of Arizona it's a program
they've been doing for literally the
past 10 plus years so again if you
haven't been able to participate please
reach out to her she does have a bracket
available for you and I think it's a
really cool way of putting together like
the happiness of March Madness with the
Science Education of what goes on you
know zoology biology and the list goes
on with that
um and then to wrap up uh hundreds of
Educators from around Virginia will
gather in Roanoke for va's annual
delegate assembly and that's going to
kick off this year on Thursday March
16th at the hotel Roanoke and we will as
delicate chart va's course for 2023-2024
debate on numerous new business items
which there are close to 110 right now
and approve a budget and policy
resolutions for the association why do
we do that because we're looking forward
to continuing to engage in the good
important work of bettering education as
a whole but also looking forward to the
2024 General Assembly where we want to
continue to make policy that makes a
difference that has a good impact on
what we do and what you do the decisions
that you make
so at this time I want to say yay for
March Madness
I hope you enjoy the rest of your winter
come on spring I need some warm weather
I'll suck at that amen thank you any
questions
thank you Dr Joe yes I appreciate it
anybody have any questions
Dr Jones
thank you again
next up is the staff committee reports
at 23 24 budget update
um Miss Burton you over that Miss
Worley's coming up do you have a you're
going to give us a brief update Miss
Marley
because I didn't see you back
she's hiding I saw her I knew you could
handle everything
well good evening everyone just want to
give you a quick update you have in your
packet tonight
um a proposed budget that was presented
on Thursday March the 9th to the budget
committee they approved this information
and wanted to pass it along to you
tonight and I think you'll be voting on
it under new business
the budget that we have put together
right now is based on the house version
if you remember we had the governor of
the house and the Senate the house
virgin house version probably wasn't the
best Revenue version for us but um
between that and the Senate that that
was the better the better choice for
putting a package together so we do have
a seven percent raise in this proposed
budget for um all contracted staff
that is in the House and Senate version
so we think maybe that will be the
general assembly um budget that is
passed but right now
um I have no news from them I don't know
if they're still talking not talking
we'll be talking
to get back together in the veto session
I'm not sure what um what's happening
there but what we want to do is go ahead
and present this budget to the Board of
Supervisors you know we have to have
something to them an estimate to them by
April the 1st for them to be able to
move forward in their budget process in
your packet you will also see the list
of initiatives that were approved
I'm not sure they have this at their
desk they don't it was in the um it's in
board Docs
it's attached in new Under new business
when you will um vote it's this very
packet
okay
but all the priorities that were voted
on by your budget committee and
yourselves they are all in the budget as
well and there's a note at the bottom
just to give the seven percent
um salary increase we would need an
additional almost 760 thousand dollars
from the Board of Supervisors and in
order to do that along with the other
initiatives that we have proposed we
would need in total a little over two
million dollars
so that is the ask that we will be
sending to the Board of Supervisors
any and also you have in that packet the
cafeteria budget
um and that's
um almost six million dollars for for
next year
and that budget also includes
um the seven percent raise if that's you
know what is approved by the general
assembly
and I do want to give a shout out when
you look at your packet it has this
beautiful cover
so I want to give a shout out to our
information technology department for
putting that together for us
tomorrow I do have um the general
assembly did pass a skinny budget and
basically that was to make the
correction in 2023
um the count tool correction that was
between five and six hundred thousand
dollar era for us
um that was done in the general assembly
skinny version budget as far as what
they did for 2024
really nothing at this point they took
no action on anything that was in the
house budget the Senate budget or the
governor's budget but we do have a zoom
meet tomorrow with Virginia Department
of Education so we may learn a little
bit more
um from that information and maybe hear
um what they are looking at or what they
know as far as what the general assembly
is doing right now or the budget
committees
any questions
on budget
so basically we're still waiting
hey I'm late right hurry up and wait
let's hope we don't have to wait as long
as we have sometimes
we hope so anybody have any questions
from this Wireless
Mr Burton you've got to comments no it's
uh
is frustrating for these folks to do
this work knowing that the information I
have is not good but you have to read
these deadlines and turn around have to
again later so we're almost appreciate
the work you folks here
no don't complain about it
I think yeah that's the sad part y'all
do all that work and it's for nothing
basically because when you get the the
actual budget which is whenever it's
never early right never early enough
it's never never before the deadlines we
have to have it to the to the board of
supervise us we always have to go back
to the drawing board
it's
but welcome to government
anybody else thank you Miss Worley
I appreciate your hard work I really do
now we have to set a public hearing
come in a minute okay just a reminder
April the 4th
here in this room what time oh no I'm
sorry we're in
April the 4th into Ford Road just for
everybody's information
okay
um up next we have the update on stem
programs middle and high schools
I see Ms Ringneck coming you're going to
take care of all of it
okay wonderful
I thought you might have a tag team
partner but I see you by yourself I
think I'm about all that's left
um good evening chairman Dallas
superintendent Jones and school board
members and assistant superintendents
I'm going to give you Updates this
evening on STEM Academy and also CTE I'm
going to start with STEM Academy I want
to give you a few updates regarding the
program we ran this first semester our
pilot program this year we ran both 9th
graders and 10th graders we ran our
Advanced Manufacturing Academy in which
we ran Manufacturing Systems our focus
in this program was welding Automation
and Robotics Precision Machining with
also a focus on engineering and I.T
we also had our introduction to health
and medical Sciences which focused on
EMT and our nursing which gives students
an overall introduction to health and
medical Sciences both of these programs
gave students environmental science in
the ninth grade and biology in the 10th
grade all students had Manufacturing
Systems if they were in the advanced
Manufacturing Academy an intro to health
and medical Sciences if they were in the
health and medical Sciences Academy
certainly because that was the first
level of the program as we transition
into our second year of the program next
year we do have returning students who
are coming back to us who will
transition into our Advanced
Manufacturing Systems to our 10th
graders will go into that who will also
be in biology and our health and medical
Sciences Academy students will take
medical terminology and biology our new
9th grade students will take intro
health and medical sciences and the
health and medical Sciences Academy
partnered with environmental sciences
and if they're in the Manufacturing
Systems Academy they'll take
Manufacturing Systems one just to give
you some stats on our pilot program this
year and our Advanced Manufacturing
Academy we had 21 students in our 9th
Grade Academy 13 in our 10th grade and
our health and medical Sciences Academy
we had 26 students in the ninth grade
and 17 students in the 10th grade
to give you a little bit of data on
biology Sol Pass rates our Advanced
Manufacturing Academy we had a hundred
percent pass rate and our health and
medical Sciences Academy we had a 82.40
percent pass rate some of the
experiences and opportunity that these
students got to to see during this time
um this semester for collaboration
Community connections critical thinking
Hands-On learning work-based readiness
project-based learning and exploration
those were some of the key areas that we
focused on during this program we've
done a lot of Partnerships with our
programs at the Career and Technical
Center students at our STEM Academy went
over and partnered with programs in at
pctc and precision Machining welding
HVAC industrial maintenance Automation
and Robotics Computer Systems Technology
electricity nursing assistant EMT and
also got to experience Career and
Technical student organization of HOSA
these students got to experience and
work Hands-On with students and teachers
in these programs this was not only a
benefit for the the students and the
programs to work collaboratively with
the students at pctc but also for the
STEM Academy teachers to work firsthand
with teachers at pctc so it was a
learning experience for both teachers at
the STEM Academy and teachers at pctc to
learn a lot and they're also currently
working on a lot of collaboration
Partnerships and and opportunities as we
expand this program for next year a lot
of the community connections that we
made and field experiences we attended
the Danville Water Treatment Plant
biomass plant population studies Coal
Power Plant Wayside Park White Oak
Mountain Wildlife Management local
Wildlife serving and done a lot of
experiments in these field studies a lot
of data we've got a lot of opportunities
planned for the future as we go out and
do this as we expand this program a lot
of intentional preparation is going into
this curriculum and content as we plan
for this next year we're very proud of
the the progress that we're making very
intentional especially with our
environmental science piece I thank you
and Dr Jones I think we'll we'll Echo
this as we continue to build this out
you're not going to see anything like
this in the in the state or anywhere
else for that matter so we're very proud
of that and very proud of the progress
that we've made along the way and we've
done a lot of promotion in the program a
lot of marketing around what the
students did this year we took a lot of
feedback from the students the students
really enjoyed these experiences and
these shared opportunities the students
excitement when you saw and it was a lot
of personal stories when we met with
these students whether they were in the
advanced Manufacturing Academy or
whether they were in the health and
medical Sciences Academy and some of
them were very heartwarming stories to
hear from Health Sciences academies from
it being a parent being diagnosed with
cancer to them wanting to be able to go
into a health and medical Sciences field
and find a cure for cancer to an
advanced manufacturing student to be
able to do research and go into
engineering or go into Machining or some
other field to be able to do something
in the community we've done a lot of
newsletter and promotions of our program
we've done a great um promotional
program piece with WDBJ7 we've had a
great connection with the former
graduate from Gretna High School who's
come back and done a lot of pieces and
in the last few months in the county for
WDBJ7 so we're very proud of that we've
been pushing very hard our recruitment
process has been off to the the
racist and and applications actually
closed on March 1st and we'll share some
of that with you we have pctc tours our
STEM Academy teachers actually came in
and does a did a presentation for all
Rising ninth graders during that process
and got a lot of great feedback they
also did a presentation at each of the
four high schools for all 10th graders
for potential open spots as again we
have to build out that that pilot and
process of how we're we're phasing in
each of those programs they also went
back to each of the four middle schools
and did another presentation to the
eighth graders Dr Jones sent out School
messenger announcements to all of these
students that included an email with
brochures with these presentations
applications and linked to our website
with all of this information as well
just to give you some updates on numbers
our capacity for 2023 2024 our Advanced
Manufacturing Academy capacity is 80 and
all of this is actually due to some fire
marshal constraints and health and
medical Sciences Academy as 80. we've
got 21 returning students in our health
um
Now 26 in our health and medical
Sciences 21 in our Advanced
Manufacturing Academy so far we've
received 179 applications for Rising 9th
graders 59 applications for 10th graders
for our STEM Academy
and if I'll I'll stop there because
those are just some of the stats again
we've had some great success I'll also
give you a little bit of feedback some
of the the feedback that we got from
some of the reasons that we took
students over to our current Technical
Center is we've built out these programs
and as the stepping stone of our the
reason we put the STEM Academy in place
as we built out these Pathways from our
go-tech model in the Middle School
building out the STEM Academy filling in
that Gap in that ninth and 10th grade
we're certainly starting to see those
gaps being filled we're starting to see
the benefits of students applying very
intentional programs at the Career and
Technical Center of programs that
they're very interested in which is what
we want we want students who've had that
exposure and have a true interest in
programs because they're a better
quality and they have a better fit for a
program that they have a true interest
in and we're starting to see that so we
have a lot of students who are coming
back and really saying that they want
that students that are coming over and
able to experience that experience in
these Labs or really getting some skills
that they've done really well our St our
teachers are seeing that firsthand and
are really recruiting hard for these
students as well any questions about
stem
okay all right Dr Jones you want to add
anything did I miss anything well I
would like to to thank you Miss Dalton
Miss Powell Miss Craig for your
leadership and also the stem teachers
they have worked tremendously hard this
winter and spring in preparation for
next year and they really launched an
excellent program in the fall for that
first cohort of students and it was very
successful just appreciate the hard work
they're they're this is new territory
that they're kind of carving out and
they're doing an excellent job with it
and we're seeing we're going to reap the
benefits of this over the year
absolutely absolutely so thank you for
your support I just want to say one
thing you know we started stem seven
eight nine years ago whenever it was and
it was an elementary and up through and
y'all did a great job and it took off
like a rocket ship and then coveted hits
and all of that goes away and you know
then while that's going on you kind of
rethought it and I know we had the gap
of of nine and ten without you know
they're going from the stem and then
nothing and then CTE so I think on the
right track I mean I really think this
is going to be good
but it's caused y'all a lot of extra
work
but because you've really regrouped a
couple of times
redoing how the stem looks and what the
use is of it so
you know I know you've rolled a lot of
it back out into the schools for the
kids which exposed Moab so that's good
so I know it's been a lot of work but do
appreciate all y'all's hard work in
schools for for doing it because it is
the kids really do enjoy it they really
do they do and that's what we do it
Forum when we see again the benefits and
and their success that's that's what
it's about
so thank you all and I'll share some
current technical education updates and
certainly when I do my annual report
there will be more detail about both the
STEM Academy and CTE updates but just
wanted to give you all some some brief
Updates this evening um and certainly
current technical education we've got a
lot of great things happening in Career
and Technical education CTE month was
celebrated last month a lot of great
things happened across the division and
all of our schools all of our programs
celebrated our students teachers
recognized across the division
recognizing not just CTE teachers and
students but recognizing our division
staff and students across and throughout
the division so I want to thank all of
them for that
um just kind of go through some of the
programs and some of the things they've
been doing just briefly Agriculture and
FFA certainly always at the Forefront of
of really participating and being very
active in their ctso and and really
Leading The Way with FFA and being very
active Chatham High Chatham middle
Tunstall High Tunstall middle and Gretna
High continue to be very active and I do
want to really congratulate them on that
they participate in a lot of activities
this year competitions and events and
have represented our our division very
well and just as Dr Jones alluded to
earlier they we have public speaking
Justice today and we've got some other
events coming up I also want to remind
everybody we do have the 75th annual
Livestock Show and sell coming up this
April 27th through the 29th so please
mark your calendar it's hard to believe
we're 75 years in on that this year but
that is a big deal we do have a lot of
Youth from elementary all the way
through High School participating in
that so please come out and support
those students as well as well as a lot
of other events on the on the horizon
between now and then as well community
service projects like many of our our
students that is big all of our programs
all of our students give back to the
community and that's something that we
are very proud of in career in technical
education will always be giving back to
the community in any way possible
business our students and I want to Echo
I'm very proud of of many of our and
certainly with all of covet you know
that that kind of slowed down several of
our programs and I do want to
congratulate Gretna Huntsville Ohio they
got really um
back in the swing of things and trying
to build FBLA back out and competed in
the regional FBLA competitions and have
actually Advanced to the state
competition this month so we're wishing
them the very best of luck and they also
have been very very active and
participating in some community service
projects I want to congratulate them on
that and again wish them the best of
luck marketing same thing students and
teachers at Dan River High grew up in a
high in Tunstall High have participated
in the district and state competitions
and have done very well and we've got
some that have actually
um
received invitations and hopefully will
be Advanced to the national competition
as well and also continue to do some
community service projects JROTC
students continue to compete in multiple
competitions throughout the year and
also community service projects and
representing our army JROTC programs
professional development we've got a lot
of teachers working on not only
conferences but training certifications
throughout the year workshops we've had
a lot of teachers who've had to be
recertified but who've also had to step
outside their comfort zones and and get
certified and trained on some some new
things and new equipment and
Technologies and resources as
advancements in Career and Technical
education are really changing and
teachers have really stepped up to the
plate to be up to par with those changes
and Technologies I'm very proud of them
for that as always we've got a lot of
regional initiatives and we continue to
partner with our Economic Development
teams a lot of Tours continue to take
place so we continue to on a weekly
basis host tours at our current
Technical Center also including Chatham
middle or go Tech Lab and we're also now
including our STEM Academy and those
tours as well
our go Tech initiative is still moving
forward in our Middle School Career
Connections programs and we're doing
some work on that and we'll be providing
some additional updates on that very
soon we're also working with our dnscp
grant with the which is dealing with our
9th and 10th grade expansion to those
programs the Danville Regional
Foundation I'm working with Miss Petty
in the elementary stem and I know she'll
be providing some updates on that we've
got some great things happening in extem
and we're very excited about that to
truly see where we're actually closing
this Gap and having a true stem pipeline
to really see how we're really closing
the gaps from K all the way through 12
and we're really proud of that STEM
Academy and pctc and a lot of that
Danville Regional Foundation supporting
those those grand initiatives that we've
been working on work based learning
that's an area that you've heard me talk
about for quite some time and we're
really working hard with quite a few
Regional Partners on some great
initiatives and I'll be talking about a
lot of those very soon we've had a lot
of local industries that have been
coming to the table wanting to partner
with us and are partnering with us in
the last couple of weeks we've got some
students that are out working in
work-based learning internships now and
we were really excited about this and
and looking forward to some more
Partnerships with business and
Industries on these expansions and and
more to come on that industry
certifications we're continuing of
course to meet those needs and then dual
enrollments we continue to meet with
Dana Community College to expand and and
continue to revise and revisit our dual
enrollment opportunities Pennsylvania
crew and Technical Center skillsusa was
recently hosted our district
competitions at pctc and I know Dr Jones
came by and got to see the the chaos and
and I guess I will say organized chaos
we had a lot of students from across the
the district there that day was a great
um competition we had a lot of former
students who came back a lot of alumni
who came back and assisted on what those
competitions which was very rewarding to
see those students to come and give back
to our Center we did have students quite
a few students and programs Advanced to
the state competition next month so
they'll be heading out for that we also
had something that we're very proud of
our HOSA I'm going into year 13 and our
host a chapter which is our nursing and
now ENT has never been very active on
the the competition side they have been
and actually Mr Reynolds took a group of
a couple students to the state
competition this past weekend and they
finished in the top ten so we're very
proud of them and then again the work
based learning Partnerships business and
industry partnership tours internal and
external you know we've done a lot with
people coming in and touring our
facilities but we're doing a lot of
external tours and going out and touring
facility and seeing what what we need to
to do and seeing tours on the outside
and seeing what we need to make sure
we're preparing our students for and
it's important for us on on our side to
see for our teachers to see so that
we're able to to prepare our students
we're also taking students out which is
also very beneficial to them
business and industry collaboration a
lot of business and industry are at the
table donating items donating products
and also talking about funding and
things of that nature so we're very
proud of that as well
um as I said earlier with the STEM
Academy WDBJ7 they came out and did
coverage on the new love sign that's
going up in Gretna which is a huge
collaborative partner ship with multiple
programs our welding program HVAC
program industrial maintenance program
electricity program at pctc which if you
haven't been by to see that project in
our school I strongly encourage you to
do that before it gets even sent out
these students have worked very hard and
are very proud of that and then also
they did a spot on skillsusa we're doing
a lot on advisory committee meetings and
a lot centered around accreditation as
I've stated before a lot of our programs
at pctc have to be accredited by
national credit and bodies so a lot of
our teachers are working that
accreditation process right now and then
we've got a lot of school division tours
former Dr Jones from Danville city
brought
Stafford County schools in a few weeks
ago along with our former site CTE
director from his division now as well
as a few others and we've got a lot of
other school divisions that are coming
in we've got a group from Arkansas that
will be coming in bringing about 25
people very soon so we've got a lot of
school divisions that are coming in
seeing what our model is and we continue
to be very proud of that because we do
lay like lay what's in the Forefront and
what that model is across the country we
also continue to host National and
international tours most recently we had
a group from the UK Parliament which was
a very interesting tour to host and to
talk to those folks and see what what we
can provide and show them about what our
students and teachers are doing just to
give you a little bit of update about
pctc recruitment for 23-24 we have
provided tours for all 8th graders and
10th graders that has concluded Ms
Dalton also went out into presentations
to all Juniors to the high schools
applications received to date
467. she she has accepted 358 students
and her capacity is
441. so just again just want to thank
all of our teachers our ctso sponsors
just like all of them you know they're
not compensated for that but they do put
a long long hours in working with these
students preparing them for these
competitions and and taking them on
these long trips and and working for
them and working with them to prepare
them for these trips any questions on
those updates and that's all I have any
questions
so before you go I want to say one thing
a couple of weeks ago we went to the
spring Southern vsba Regional meeting
we went to a brand new school and I will
say it was a beautiful school one of the
first schools I've seen in a long time
it was big and it was pretty but their
CTE it's only one school high school in
this particular and I'm not trying to
take anything away from them but their
CTE program was actually in the high
school you know in the building and of
course it was new too
but the whole presentation that we
listened to for 45 minutes maybe
whatever it was was their CTE program
what'd I tell you sitting there
they don't have a CTE program when you
look at Iowa's I mean and they were very
proud of it and I think they had done
the best they could do don't get me
wrong and the things they had done were
good
but they were nowhere on the level of
what y'all done over there they just it
didn't match up at all
it really did did it
so
um thank you all for the good hard work
you do I know you you keep improving you
keep getting better gosh if we had a
little money what could we do right
anybody else have anything
thank you all right
up next there are nine desk reports does
anybody have any questions or concerns
or comments on any of the nine desk
reports
if not I'm going to move on to the
superintendent's items
yes sir Mr Doss members of school board
I would like first to to at your place
here you'll see an invitation that's to
the broadbound Broadband groundbreaking
ceremony
on Java Road that's on March the 29th at
11 o'clock if you can make it there that
that that
invitation came from the County
Administrator if you can make it I think
the county would appreciate that
some good news about our schools
those who went to the vsba regional
Forum just a week or so ago we took
three pieces of Art
and all three pieces of art received a
first place or a second place ribbon out
of the region so that's outstanding just
to celebrate our the good work that our
our teachers are doing those will be
recognized at next month's meeting so
we'll recognize those students next
month
also several of you all were at the
all-county elementary course on March
the 4th at Chatham High School that was
an outstanding event standing room only
and in fact there were people standing
all up around the back
so anyone would like to share anything
about that who there I think several of
you all were at that event but it's just
outstanding
it's about 40 50 people standing and
standing room on I never seen anything
I've never seen anything like that in
the musical teacher even came up to Dr
Jones before he started she said you
never performed in this in front of this
many people
but it was over a hundred students I've
never seen that before
and I've been to many of them over years
but it was a very enjoyable really good
night but you could tell that the
parents grandparents everybody would
want to get out to see the kids they
were good it was a Chatham High School
to see all six field and then people
standing and very patient
dogs almost fit him but he had a service
animal beside us and I think it was a
joke
but also our high school band has been a
part of a pre-assessment to now see any
jobs there so if you were there some of
you all were at that pre-assessment just
the bands are doing outstanding work I'm
gonna expand on that too if you were not
there they went to uh I think it was 35
30 some bands at GW the last few days
last week yeah Thursday Friday and
Saturday
they performed if you go Facebook to
start Tribune they were there and they
got some performance of each one of the
four bands from the county
very impressive and I know that Chatham
had a superior rating and the others got
good ratings but some of the best I've
heard all years but take time to go to
Starscream Facebook and scroll down and
you'll find Gretna Tunstall Nan River
and academy of performing over there
um also we recognized two of our staff
members were recognized that the svrtc
awards uh Mr Brandon Hopkins who is a
itrt at Twin Springs and Mr Henry
Crenshaw the Gretna area technician so
outstanding for those those two
individuals we also have a school board
representative of Grace Daws who was
recognized today with the DAR award we
they recognized two of our students of
Addison hunsicker from Tunstall high
school and also Grace from Dan River
High School so congratulations Grace
um
other items that I have we have a high
school girls basketball player Alicia
farmer from Dan River High School who
scored over a thousand points in her
career
Tunstall high school and Gretna High
School basketball teams participate in
Regional play
Gretna was beat by Radford at Radford
and Tunstall was beat by King beaten by
K Springs at Tulsa high school but both
had outstanding seasons
um other items that I have we've we've
been talking about some divisions across
the state are looking at inclement
weather days and Bank time and have
looking at providing a day or two off I
would like to ask the board we our staff
has worked tremendously hard but I would
like to ask the board that we continue
on with the instructional days of as
planned in the original calendar I think
that we've missed so much time for covid
our students need to be back in school
they need the consistency that our
schools provide they need the
instruction that we provide for them but
also the social and emotional sports
that our teachers staff provide for them
I think they're in dire need of that
right now so I would just like to ask
that we continue to continue the course
that's planned out in the calendar the
counter also has a day this Friday that
was in the original counter that our
staff are off and then also spring break
is in the week after Easter so that's in
the original calendar and then once we
come back we we are we're focused on
instruction and getting ready for the
Sol test so I I again I appreciate the
great work of our staff I think the need
for our students to be in class just
just as overwhelming right now and our
kids and we all need to get back to some
routine so I would like to ask that we
would continue on as as in the calendar
we did a few years ago we did Bank some
time 12 minutes a day
and if you look at the 990 in past years
where we've had inclement weather we've
we've opted for a 990 clock hour
calendar versus 180 days
we Bank each year this year we Bank 180
hours
that's well over the 990 I mean that's
done by the extra 12 minutes but our
staff still work a seven and a half hour
day we just added a few minutes within
that seventh hour so right now we
operate on a six hour instructional hour
day up in our calendar and I I just
believe that we need those six hours
each day this year to get us to help us
catch our students up
anyone else like to share anything
regarding that
and then just a couple other items I
provided in your packets information
regarding uh the Middle School sports
but also we our Capital our building
committee has met we've talked about our
capital projects Mr Hudson and Mr Scott
Have Been instrumental in doing a lot of
work of getting ready for uh sales tax
referendum that money coming in and so
as we move towards that we'll provide
additional information to you but a lot
of good planning is underway at this
time
other items that I have the SBA March
Hot Topic conference March the 15th
vsb April Hot Topic conference is April
the 13th
and I think that's all that I had this
evening
all right thank you Dr Jones
there's no unfinished business we'll
move on to new business with approval of
the draft 23 24 budget
to the public hearing and submission to
the Board of Supervisors Mr Burton you
over that committee move we approved
seven Motion in a second
to approve the budget 23 24 budget that
y'all have put together and again Ms
Worley thank you for all your hard work
I know it's been tough
um any comments or questions on it
roll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Dallas
aye next step is to the outer District
student tuition rate for 23.25
it's already done
public hearing is would be
that's prior to the is it doing the
regularly the regular meeting and so the
regular meeting
applications in closed session and
related actions that's how we want to
make sure we didn't ask anybody
listening and the meeting will be in the
boardroom okay
okay thank you Miss Martin
um so that takes care of that so out of
District student tuition rate for 23.24
Dr Jones I believe that's going to
remain the same as what you proposed yes
sir yes sir move we approved
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Anderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mills yeah Mr Moon Mr dolls aye
up next is the school board
self-evaluation tool
make a motion we approve it
second
any discussion
oh Mr chairman I I really have a hard
time with this
uh there are some things in the first
page that we simply do because it's a
duty to do
and we do that to Perfection I think
there's some of it that I don't feel
like that we need to cross we need to
open a can of worms especially on the
Personnel evaluation so to speak I'm
totally against this we
we do the best we can with what we've
got and I don't think we need to go down
a road that might cause some criticism
and some hard feelings
amongst this board
so I am adamantly opposed to it okay
anybody else
yeah
um
I was not hired into the this position I
was elected
so I have a responsibility
to my constituents
and I answer to them
it's their evaluation of me and my
performance that matters
just like the rest of you
now they may see us at ball games
out in the community they can call and
talk to some phone
but as far as conducting business
all they see
is an hour and a half once a month
we vote on very specific issues
there's a whole lot that they don't see
of what we do
now
no board is perfect
so there are issues that we have and
there are areas that we can make
improvements
and I don't know of a better way for us
to identify those areas that we need to
prove other than
taking an honest look at ourselves
as well as hearing input from the people
we work close with
and just sitting down and having open
honest discussion
on things that we might need to improve
on and I have confidence that we as a
board can do this without personal
attacks without being divisive I think
we can sit down and just discuss it to
make sure we're doing the best job we
can for
the students and for our schools now
this is my this will be my fourth year
on the board
now I'm still learning all the time it
seems like the more I learn the more I
realize I don't know
I know Mr Fitzgerald if he's still new
and I think going over this evaluation
we're reviewing what our
responsibilities are and this would be
extremely beneficial for him to look and
see what we're supposed to do and he can
ask questions I can ask questions to get
a better understanding of what we're
supposed to do as a board
and I know Miss Hancock spent a lot of
time on this so thank you for that Miss
Hancock
and I just don't really see the problem
I don't it doesn't have to open up a can
of worms it doesn't have to cause hard
feelings
I just I think it'd be a good thing to
do to make sure we're doing the best job
we can I think we owe that to our
constituents to make so they can see
that we are we're taking this seriously
and we want to do the best we can
so I mean I don't know of another way we
could do that
that's just my opinion
and if
I'll shut up that's all I'm sorry
for sure yeah I would just like to say
that that's quite a bit in that document
that I have not had a chance to really
look at and I'm not sure who I'm
standing on it bid on the board for one
year we have one year
at this particular time I would have to
abstain from Boulder
only
anybody else
okay we've got a motion in the second
roll call please
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald abstain
Mr Henderson no
Miss Max
Mr Mills yes Mr Moon
Mr Dallas no
so the vote is three yes three no and
one abstain
I mean the fails right
right I'm not mistake right yes that's
correct okay
I think it's something we need to have
further discussion on to be honest I'm
not ready to do it yet either
I'm not saying I don't want to do it I'm
just saying I'm not ready to do it right
now I think I think we need to have
further discussion I just don't feel
comfortable tonight voting on it okay
all right up next is the summer school
salary rates
we need to set those I believe it was
um it was in your packet to have a
motion
I make a motion we accept it
thank you
any other discussion on summer school
salary rates
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Dallas hi
and Amendment amendments to the
agreement for solar services from
suntrab
I don't know
don't you know Scott Mr Mr Hudson Mr
Hudson what do we what do we need here
I'm apologized but I don't I didn't
receive this
okay
okay thank you
so you're good with okay I've got a
motion in a second
any any other discussion
Rocco Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon Mr Donald
aye and finally the use of the ECC
building Miss Burton yeah it turns out
we have a joint use agreement with board
supervisors that was signed in 21.
I make a motion that we fought we
continue to follow that agreement
okay I was doing coven I guess all of us
had covered phone must burn because I
honestly did not remember it but that's
okay we do have it any other discussion
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson
aye Mr Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr
Moon Mr Doss aye
Mr Burton
uh Mr Fitzgerald uh Miss Henderson aye
Ms Merricks aye Mr Mays yes Mr Moon Mr
doc thank you